### Intuition

Let's examine how we approach this problem from the basics. The question states that:

1. We need to maximize the sum.
2. We should not choose adjacent elements.

This means that if we choose the 'i-th' element, we cannot choose the 'i-1' and 'i+1' elements from the array. To maximize the sum, we need to smartly choose the 'i-th' element.

Let's take some examples:

#### Example 1
Input: `[2]`; `n=1`
- Here, we can choose only `2`.
- Hence, the output is `2`.

#### Example 2
Input: `[2, 3]`; `n=2`
- Here, we can choose either `2` or `3`.
- Since `3 > 2`, the output is `3` (we can't choose `2` now).

#### Example 3
Input: `[2, 4, 3]`; `n=3`
- Output is `5`.

##### Cases:
1. If we choose `2`, then sum = `2`, and we are left with `[3]` -> Hence, output is `5`.
2. If we choose `4`, then sum = `4`, and we are left with `[]` -> Hence, output is `4`.
3. If we choose `3`, then sum = `3`, and we are left with `[2]` -> Hence, output is `5`.

This means we need to see whether choosing the current element gives us the maximum sum or if choosing the next/previous element gives the maximum sum.


### 1. Approach—SolutionRecursive

Extending the above process, we can solve this recursively by choosing the 'i-th' element and seeing if it gives us the best solutionUsingMapWithoutSort. If not, we try `i+1`.

We do this recursively, so we don't need to look back.

#### Base Case:
1. `n=1`: We have to choose this element only, hence it will give us the best solutionUsingMapWithoutSort `nums[0]`.
2. `n=2`: We choose the maximum of them; hence `Max(nums[0], nums[1])`.

#### General Case:
- Otherwise, we try both options:
  max = Max(nums[i] + rec(nums, i+2), rec(nums, i+1))

- `nums[i] + rec(nums, i+2)`: Choose the 'i-th' element.
- `rec(nums, i+1)`: Don't choose the 'i-th' element.

#### Time Complexity:
As it will form a binary tree of max height `n` (since we have `n` choices), the complexity is `O(n^2)`.

### 2. Approach—SolutionRecursiveMemoTopDown

#### Base Case:
1. `n=1`: We have to choose this element only, hence it will give us the best solutionUsingMapWithoutSort `nums[0]`.
2. `n=2`: We choose the maximum of them; hence `Max(nums[0], nums[1])`.

#### General Case:
- Otherwise, we try both options:
  max = Max(nums[i] + rec(nums, i+2), rec(nums, i+1))

- `nums[i] + rec(nums, i+2)`: Choose the 'i-th' element.
- `rec(nums, i+1)`: Don't choose the 'i-th' element.

We can see that there are many overlapping sub-problems. We can cache them to reduce the time complexity. Because of the cache, we don't evaluate the same problem again, hence:

#### Time Complexity:
`O(n)`


### 3. Approach—SolutionBottomUp

We can solve this using a bottom-up approach.

#### Base Case:
1. `n=1`: We have to choose this element only, hence it will give us the best solutionUsingMapWithoutSort `nums[0]`.
2. `n=2`: We choose the maximum of them; hence `Max(nums[0], nums[1])`.

#### General Case:
- Otherwise, we try both options: `dp[i] = Max(dp[i-2] + nums[i], dp[i-1])`

- `dp[i-2] + nums[i]`: Choose the 'i-th' element.
- `dp[i-1]`: Don't choose the 'i-th' element.

#### Complexity:
`O(n)` / `O(n)`


### 4. Approach—SolutionLinear

The problem exhibits two scenarios:
1. Include this element.
2. Don't include this element.

We can solve this without storing all values. Notice the recurrence relation:

#### Recurrence Relation:
`dp[i] = Max(dp[i-2] + nums[i], dp[i-1])`
At any moment `i`, we are just considering `i-2` and `i-1`. All previous elements (`i-3...0`) are not touched. Hence, instead of storing all values, we can just store these two values and apply the same logic:

- `including` -> dp[i-2]
- `excluding` -> dp[i-1]

To calculate for the next `i`:
- Max sum at any moment is `max = Max(including, excluding)`

#### If We Include:
- We need to discard the last element and take the current element `nums[i]` + previous to previous, which is nothing but excluding the last element, hence `excluding`:
  `including = excluding + nums[i]`

#### If We Exclude:
- We need to take the maximum of the previous choice (like in dp, it was `dp[i-1]`), which is nothing but `Max(previous choices)`:
  `excluding = max`


#### Sample Run:
arr[] = `{5,  5, 10, 40, 50, 35}`

| i | Current Element | Include (excl + arr[i]) | Exclude (max(incl, excl)) | Max Sum (incl, excl) | 
|---|-----------------|-------------------------|---------------------------|----------------------|
| 0 | 5               | 5                       | 0                         | incl = 5, excl = 0   | 
| 1 | 5               | 5                       | 5                         | incl = 5, excl = 5   | 
| 2 | 10              | 15                      | 5                         | incl = 15, excl = 5  | 
| 3 | 40              | 45                      | 15                        | incl = 45, excl = 15 | 
| 4 | 50              | 65                      | 45                        | incl = 65, excl = 45 | 
| 5 | 35              | 80                      | 65                        | incl = 80, excl = 65 | 

And 35 is the last element. So, the answer is max(incl, excl) = 80.


#### Complexity:
`O(n)` / `O(1)`


