### Intuition and Algorithm for `minSwaps`
[Leetcode](https://leetcode.com/problems/minimum-number-of-swaps-to-make-the-string-balanced/solutions/5887512/easy-solutionMimicPQ-with-mathematical-explanation)
#### Intuition
The goal is to determine the minimum number of swaps required to balance the brackets in the given string `s`.
A balanced string has an equal number of matching opening and closing brackets in the correct order.
Swaps will only be required when there is a mismatch between the brackets. So, if we know how many are unbalanced, then we can calculate the swaps needed to balance them.

### How do we know the number of unbalanced brackets?
We know that every open bracket will participate in unbalanced bracket, if there is no closing bracket near to it or other way of saying is that, every close bracket will participate in unbalanced bracket if there is no open bracket just prior to it.

Note, it is possible that, when we hit a closing bracket, then there is no open bracket available, this could happen because of two reasons:
1. The previous part of string become balanced.
2. There is no open bracket has been seen so far.

Hence, if we just count the number of closing opening brackets and decrease the count as soon as we have a closing bracket, then the remaining opening bracket will form the unbalanced bracket. To make the balance, 1 swap is required per a pair of brackets.

#### Approach

1. **Counting Unbalanced Open Brackets**:
    - Traverse the string and count the number of unmatched opening brackets (`[`).
    - For every closing bracket (`]`), check if there is a corresponding unmatched opening bracket. If there is, match them; otherwise, continue.

2. **Calculating Minimum Swaps**:
    - The unbalanced opening brackets indicate unmatched opening brackets remaining after processing the entire string.
    - To balance these brackets, we need to swap brackets such that every unmatched opening bracket can find a match.
    - Each swap can fix two unbalanced opening brackets (since we need one closing bracket to match with one opening bracket).
    - Thus, the minimum number of swaps required is count / 2. However, if the count is odd, we need an extra swap is required.

### Example
s = ] ] ] ]...[ [ [ [...
For example:

] ] ] ] ] ] [ [ [ [ [ [

// swap 1
v  v

] ] ] ] [ ] [ ] [ [ [ [ 

// swap 2
v      v

] ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ [ 

// swap 3
v          v

[ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ]



We can write the number of mismatches and the corresponding optimal swaps:

| Mismatches | 0 | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | ... |
|------------|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|-----|
| Swaps      | 0 | 1 | 1 | 2 | 2 | 3 | 3 | ... |

We can see the pattern is `swaps = (count + 1) / 2` or `Math.ceil(count / 2)`.


## Complexity
T/S: O(n)/O(1)