One approach would be to take a 10-size substring and check in a hashmap:

1.  If exists, add to output.
2.  If not exists, then add to hashmap.

Checking in the hashmap would take O(1). However, taking a substring of 10 size over an 'n' size string would occur approximately 'n/10' times, and each would take O(L) time. This makes the overall complexity O(n*L).

There is a 9-character overlap between the first substring and the second substring, and so on. If we can re-utilize those 9 characters efficiently, we can avoid the cost of taking the substring repeatedly.

Since we know that there are only A, C, G, T types, we can build a rolling hash over the string. This means that if we find the same hash value again, it indicates a repeated substring.

For example:
```
1.  AAAAACCCCC | AAAAACCCCC | CAAAAAGGGT | TT => #1 | #1 | #2 | NA (since < 10)
2.  A| AAAACCCCCA | AAAACCCCCC | AAAAAGGGTT | T => NA | #3 | #4 | #5 | NA (since < 10)
3.  AA | AAACCCCCAA | AAACCCCCCA | AAAAGGGTTT |
    ....
    AAAAA | CCCCCAAAAA | CCCCCAAAAA | GGGTTT => NA | #8 | #8 | NA
```
If we would have converted 'AAAAACCCCC' to a hash value like '#1', then every time the same string appeared, it would have the same #1 value.

The challenge here is how to build that hash method in a rolling fashion so that we can utilize 9 characters from the last substring.

One approach to convert a 10-length string to a hash is called rolling hash.

We can choose a rolling hash in many ways. One simple approach is to choose a base-based rolling hash. Since we have only 4 letters, we can choose a base 4 rolling hash where:
```
A = 0, C = 1, G = 2, T = 3
```

That makes:
```
AAAAACCCCCAAAAACCCCCCAAAAAGGGTTT -> 00000111110000011111100000222333
```
Now we can pick 10 letters and build a hash just like a number in base 10.

In base 10, we build a number like 457 as \(4 \times 100 + 5 \times 10 + 7\). If we want to change this number to 576 (dropping 4 and adding 6), it would be:

```
shift = 457 * 10 = 4570
drop = 4570 - 4 * 1000 = 4570 - 4000 = 570
add = 570 + 6 = 576
We can do something similar in base 4.
```

One noticeable problem with this approach is Collision. There is always a chance of collision in a rolling hash function, and it would become very difficult to avoid.

To avoid collision, we can rather use a rolling hash 'mask' instead.

As we know, DNA is a sequence of characters, and each character takes 2 bytes in memory. Since we have just 4 possibilities, that can be represented using just 2 bits (\(2^2 = 4\)) as:

```
A - 00 [0]
C - 01 [1]
G - 10 [2]
T - 11 [3]
```

Now, a 10-character long string would require a total of 20 bits. Hence, we can build a mask that makes sure that on applying it, only the last 20 bits are kept.

```
mask = (1 << 20) - 1 // which is all 1; 0xfffff (i.e., 20 bits set to 1).
```
Now, `(number & mask)` will extract its last 20 bits only, which can be re-checked using a `HashSet` for existence.

To remove a character from the start and add one at the end, we can drop the first 2 bits and add the new character's hash value.