[2291. Maximum Profit From Trading Stocks](https://leetcode.com/problems/maximum-profit-from-trading-stocks/description/)
/ [Leetcode.ca](https://leetcode.ca/2022-07-02-2291-Maximum-Profit-From-Trading-Stocks/)
* Locked Problem
* Premium Problem
### Problem Statement

You are given two 0-indexed integer arrays of the same length `present` and `future` where `present[i]` is the current price of the `i-th` stock and `future[i]` is the price of the `i-th` stock a year in the future.

You may buy each stock at most once. You are also given an integer `budget` representing the amount of money you currently have.

Return the maximum amount of profit you can make.

### Examples

#### Example 1
**Input:**
present = [5, 4, 6, 2, 3] future = [8, 5, 4, 3, 5] budget = 10

**Output:** 6

**Explanation:**
One possible way to maximize your profit is to:
- Buy the 0th, 3rd, and 4th stocks for a total of 5 + 2 + 3 = 10.
- Next year, sell all three stocks for a total of 8 + 3 + 5 = 16.
- The profit you made is 16 - 10 = 6.
- It can be shown that the maximum profit you can make is 6.

#### Example 2
**Input:**
present = [2, 2, 5] future = [3, 4, 10] budget = 6

**Output:** 5

**Explanation:**
The only possible way to maximize your profit is to:
- Buy the 2nd stock, and make a profit of 10 - 5 = 5.
- It can be shown that the maximum profit you can make is 5.

#### Example 3
**Input:**
present = [3, 3, 12] future = [0, 3, 15] budget = 10

**Output:** 0

**Explanation:**
One possible way to maximize your profit is to:
- Buy the 1st stock, and make a profit of 3 - 3 = 0.
- It can be shown that the maximum profit you can make is 0.

### Constraints

- `n == present.length == future.length`
- `1 <= n <= 1000`
- `0 <= present[i], future[i] <= 100`
- `0 <= budget <= 1000`


## Intuition-Recursion(TLE)
- We need to decide whether to include each stock in our portfolio or not to maximize the profit.
- For each stock, we can either:
    1. Include it in our portfolio if we have enough budget and it yields a profit.
    2. Exclude it and move to the next stock.
- Use recursion to explore both possibilities for each stock and keep track of the maximum profit.

### Approach

1. **Initialization**:
    - Start with the first stock and a budget of 0.
    - Use a helper recursive function to explore both inclusion and exclusion of each stock.

2. **Recursive Function**:
    - If the current index exceeds the number of stocks or the current budget exceeds the total budget, return 0 (base case).
    - Check if the current stock can be included:
        - If including the current stock is within the budget and yields a profit, calculate the profit by including this stock and proceed to the next stock.
    - Calculate the profit by excluding the current stock and proceed to the next stock.
    - Return the maximum profit obtained by either including or excluding the current stock.

### Complexity

- **Time Complexity**: Exponential, `O(2^n)`, where `n` is the number of stocks, due to the recursive calls exploring both inclusion and exclusion of each stock.
- **Space Complexity**: `O(n*budget)`, the space used by the recursion stack.

## Intuition-DP

### Intuition-Top-Down Approach
This is just an extension of recursive solutionUsingDeque. Since there are multiple overlapping problems, we can simply cache them in dp array as defined below 
```
dp[i][b] - represent the max profit on buying on ith day and selling on ith day with budget budget
```
#### Complexity

- **Time Complexity**: Exponential, `O(n*budget)`, where `n` is the number of stocks, due to the recursive calls exploring both inclusion and exclusion of each stock.
- **Space Complexity**: `O(n*budget)`, the space used by the recursion stack.


### Intuition-BottomUP Approach
We can simply convert the top-down approach to bottom up with recursive relationships.  
```
dp[i][b] - represent the max profit on buying on ith day and selling on ith day with budget budget

dp[i][b] = Max(<exclude the current day>, <include the current day + max profit by previous day on currentBudget - present[i]> )

Hence;
dp[i][b] = max(dp[i+1][b], future[i] - present[i] + dp[i+1][b-present[i]] )

OR
dp[i][b] = max(dp[i-1][b], future[i] - present[i] + dp[i-1][b-present[i]] )
```
#### Complexity

- **Time Complexity**: Exponential, `O(n*budget)`, where `n` is the number of stocks, due to the recursive calls exploring both inclusion and exclusion of each stock.
- **Space Complexity**: `O(n*budget)`, the space used by the recursion stack.



### Intuition-BottomUP-SpaceOptimized Approach
We can observe that we are using only two rows at a time, hence we can convert instead of using `n` rows, we can simply use two rows and exchange them as needed.
```
dp[0][b] - represent the max profit on buying on previous day with budget budget
dp[1][b] - represent the max profit on buying on current day with budget budget

Hence;
dp[1][b] = max(dp[0][b], future[i] - present[i] + dp[0][b-present[i]] )
```
#### Complexity

- **Time Complexity**: Exponential, `O(n*budget)`, where `n` is the number of stocks, due to the recursive calls exploring both inclusion and exclusion of each stock.
- **Space Complexity**: `O(budget)`, the space used by the recursion stack.