
# [122. Best Time to Buy and Sell Stock II](https://leetcode.com/problems/best-time-to-buy-and-sell-stock-ii/description/)

## Intuition-Recursion
- We need to manage the states of buying and selling over the given days.
- Use recursion to explore the possibilities of either buying or selling on any given day.
- The recursive function will consider two states: buying and selling.

At any moment, we will be either buying the stocks or selling the stocks. When we buy the stocks on `i`th day then we have to pay the `prices[i]` money on that day. 
And whenever we are selling the stocks we will get `prices[i]` money in our pocket. 

Now, for each state, we have two choices
1. Either buy on `i` day and sell it on other day `i+1` and pay money `prices[i]`
2. We don't buy on `i` day, continue to search space for buying on other day `i+1`. 
3. Either sell on `i` day and buy on `i+1` day and get `prices[i]` money in our pocket.
4. We don't sell on `i` day, continue to search space for selling on other day `i+1`.

This makes; 
```
buy = Math.max ( <buy on ith day - prices[i]>, <don't buy on ith day>)
sell = Math.max( <sell on ith day + prices[i]> , <don't sell on ith day>)

Profit = Math.max (buy, sell); 
```

### Approach

1. **Initialization**:
   - Define constants for buying and selling states.
   - Start recursion from the first day with the buying state.

2. **Recursive Function**:
   - If the current-day index exceeds the length of prices, return 0 (base case).
   - If it's a buying day:
      - Calculate profit by either buying the stock and moving to the next day with the selling state or skipping the buy and moving to the next day with the buying state.
   - If it's a selling day:
      - Calculate profit by either selling the stock and moving to the next day with the buying state or skipping the sell and moving to the next day with the selling state.
   - Return the maximum profit obtained.

### Complexity

- **Time Complexity**: Exponential in the worst case due to the recursive calls, `O(2^n)`, where `n` is the number of days.
- **Space Complexity**: `O(n)` due to the recursion stack.


## Intuition-DynamicProgramming

### Intuition-Top-Down Approach
This is just caching the changing state ( day and buy/sell) on the recursion tree.
```
Integer[][] dp = new Integer[prices.length][2];
dp[i][1] max profit on buying on ith day
dp[i][0] max profit on selling on ith day
```

### Complexity

- **Time Complexity**: Exponential in the worst case due to the recursive calls, `O(n)`, where `n` is the number of days.
- **Space Complexity**: `O(n)` due to the dp.


### Intuition-BottomUp Approach
This is just a tabulation of top-down approach
```
dp[i][1] max profit on buying on ith day
dp[i][0] max profit on selling on ith day

dp[i][1] = Math.max(dp[i + 1][0] - prices[i], dp[i + 1][1]);
dp[i][0] = Math.max(dp[i + 1][1] + prices[i], dp[i + 1][0]);
```
Note: Above can be spaced optimized by keeping only current and last state. 

### Complexity
- **Time Complexity**: Exponential in the worst case due to the recursive calls, `O(n)`, where `n` is the number of days.
- **Space Complexity**: `O(n)` / `O(1)`.


### Intuition-BottomUpV2
Instead of making 2D array, we can go with 1D array as well. 
```
buy[i] max profit on buying on ith day
sell[i] max profit on selling on ith day

buy[i] = Max(<don't buy>, <buy>)
sell[i] = Max(<don't sell>, <sell>)

Hence, 
buy[i] = Max(buy[i-1, sell[i-1] - prices[i]]
sell[i] = Max(sell[i-1], buy[i-1] + prices[i])

Profit = sell[i]; 
```

This can be further space optimized by keeping last state and current state only. 
```
int buy = -prices[0];
int sell = 0;

for (int i = 1; i < n; i++) {
 buy = Math.max(buy, sell - prices[i]);
 sell = Math.max(sell, buy + prices[i]);
}

```

### Complexity
- **Time Complexity**: Exponential in the worst case due to the recursive calls, `O(n)`, where `n` is the number of days.
- **Space Complexity**: `O(n)` / `O(1)`.




## Intuition-Greedy
This is inspired from `BottomUpV2`
The goal is to maximize profit from stock prices where multiple transactions are allowed, 
but you cannot hold more than one share at a time. 
To achieve the maximum profit, we can sell the stock whenever we see a profit, as selling early provides the opportunity to buy again and 
potentially sell at a higher price later. This approach uses a greedy strategy, always opting to take the immediate profit rather than holding out for a potentially larger profit that may or may not occur.

Consider the example: 
`prices = [1, 2, 3, 90, 95, 99, 100]`
Here, selling at all profitable opportunity yields:
`(2 - 1) + (3 - 2) + (90 - 3) + (95 - 90) + (99 - 95) + (100 - 99) = 1 + 1 + 87 + 5 + 4 + 1 = 99`

Comparing this to holding the stock from the lowest price to the highest price:
`100 - 1 = 99`

This confirms that our greedy approach doesn't miss out on profit.

### Approach
1. **Initialization**:
    - Initialize a variable `profit` to store the accumulated profit.

2. **Iterate Through Prices**:
    - Loop through the array of prices starting from the second element.
    - For each price, check if it is higher than the previous day's price:
        - If it is, calculate the profit from buying at the previous day's price and selling at the current price.
        - Add this profit to the total `profit`.

3. **Return Result**:
    - Return the accumulated `profit`.

This approach efficiently captures all potential profit opportunities through a single pass over the prices array.

### Complexity Analysis

Time Complexity: `O(n)`
Space Complexity: `O(1)`
