# [2070. Most Beautiful Item for Each Query](https://leetcode.com/problems/most-beautiful-item-for-each-query/description/)

# Overview
In this problem, queries give us an array of prices while items give us a 2D array of the price and corresponding beauty of some items. We have to answer each query by finding the maximum possible beauty of an item in items with a price less than or equal to the price given by `queries[i]`. In other words, we would like to find the highest "beauty" score without going over the price given by `queries[i]`.

# Approach 1: Sorting Items + Binary Search
## Intuition
We observe that the maximum beauty for a given price `p` in items will be the maximum beauty of all items in items with a price less than or equal to `p`. To do this for each query, we can scan through items and keep track of the maximum beauty amongst all qualified items (items with a price less than or equal to the query price). This would require us to traverse through the entirety of items for each query. However, we can calculate this maximum beauty more efficiently if we do some preprocessing with items. Specifically, we can:

1. Sort the items in items in ascending order by price.
2. Traverse through items and keep track of the maximum beauty `maxBeauty` seen so far. We can overwrite each item's beauty with its maximum possible beauty given its price: `item[1] = maxBeauty`.

Here, the overwriting done in step 2 gives us O(1) access to the maximum beauty for a given item's price. Thus, for a given query price, if we know the index of the item in items with the highest price that doesn't exceed the query price, we also know the maximum beauty for the query price.

Because items is now sorted, we can efficiently find this index using binary search. In our binary search, we will continuously halve our search space at each iteration to find the index of the highest-priced item whose price doesn't exceed `queries[i]`. Then, we know `item[1]` would yield the maximum beauty possible for that query. Note that this binary search for each query only takes O(logM) time, which takes significantly less time than traversing through the entirety of items using an O(M) linear scan.

## Algorithm
1. Initialize `ans` array to store answers for `queries[i]`.
2. Sort items by increasing order of price.
3. Store the maximum beauty for each item:
    - Initialize the initial max beauty `max = items[0][1]`.
    - For each item in items:
        - Update the max beauty seen so far: `max = maximum(max, item[1])`.
        - Overwrite the item's beauty with its max beauty: `item[1] = max`.
4. Answer each query. From `i = 0` to `i = queries.length - 1`:
    - `ans[i] = binarySearch(items, queries[i])`.

### Define helper function `binarySearch(items, targetPrice)`:
1. Establish our left and right boundaries in binary search: `l = 0, r = items.length - 1`.
2. Initialize `maxBeauty` to 0.
3. While `l < r`, we still have a search space to search:
    - Calculate mid-point: `mid = (l + r) / 2`.
    - If given `targetPrice` is less than `items[mid][0]`,
        - Move to the left half of the search space. Update `r = mid - 1`.
    - Otherwise, `targetPrice` is greater than or equal to the current price:
        - This is a viable price, so update `maxBeauty = maximum(maxBeauty, items[mid][1])`.
        - Keep moving to the right half. Update `l = mid + 1`.
4. At this point, we have exhausted our search space, and `maxBeauty` contains the answer. Return `maxBeauty`.


## Complexity Analysis
Let M be the size of items and let N be the size of queries.

### Time Complexity: `O((M+N)⋅logM)`

Sorting items in ascending order of price takes `O(M⋅logM)` time. Then, going through all queries will take `O(N)` time, 
where answering each query involves a binary search that takes `O(logM)` time. Thus, the total time complexity is `O((M+N)⋅logM)`.

### Space Complexity: O(SM)
The space complexity is determined by the space needed by our sorting algorithm to sort items. 
This space complexity (S) depends o n the language of implementation. Given input size M:



# Approach 2: Sorting Items + Sorting Queries
## Intuition
In Approach 1, we start by sorting the items array and calculating the maximum beauty for each item. This allows us to efficiently answer each query using binary search. Essentially, for each query, we look for the most beautiful item that meets the specified criteria based on price.

For our second approach, we also begin by sorting the items and calculating their maximum beauty. However, instead of using binary search for each query, we take a different route. We sort the queries in ascending order of price, just like we did with items. This way, we can perform a linear scan through both the items and queries simultaneously. As we go through them, we can easily find the maximum beauty for all the queries in one pass, making the process more efficient.

Specifically, for each query `queries[i]`, we can maintain a pointer to iterate through all the items in items with prices that don't exceed `queries[i]`. While we iterate through all these valid items for the given query, we can maintain the maximum beauty seen so far. Then, the maximum beauty seen will answer the current query. We can then continue this process for all other queries. Note that because the queries are increasing in price, we do not have to worry about moving our pointer back to consider cheaper items. This allows us to answer all queries with only one pass through queries and items.

One thing to note is that sorting queries directly will cause us to lose its original indexing, which would stop us from storing our answers in the `answers` result in the intended order. As a result, we can create an intermediate 2D array `queriesWithIndices` that will store the original queries in `queries` along with its original index. Thus, we can iterate through the queries via `queriesWithIndices` in which `queriesWithIndices[i][1]` will yield us the original index for query `i`.

## Algorithm
1. Initialize `ans` array to store answers for `queries[i]`.
2. Sort `items` by increasing order of price.
3. Initialize a new 2D array `queriesWithIndices` that contains each element in `queries` as well as its index.
4. Sort `queriesWithIndices` by increasing order of price/query.
5. Initialize our pointer to iterate through items: `itemIndex = 0`.
6. Initialize a variable to maintain the maximum beauty seen so far: `maxBeauty = 0`.
7. From `i = 0` to `i = queries.length - 1`:
    - Get the current query price: `query = queriesWithIndices[i][0]`.
    - Get the current original query index: `originalIndex = queriesWithIndices[i][1]`.
    - While `itemIndex < items.length` and `items[itemIndex][0] <= query`:
        - Update our `maxBeauty` if we found a valid item with a higher beauty: `maxBeauty = max(maxBeauty, items[itemIndex][1])`.
        - Advance our pointer: `itemIndex++`.
    - Fill the answer for the query: `ans[originalIndex] = maxBeauty`.
8. Return `ans`.

## Complexity Analysis
Let M be the size of items and let N be the size of queries.

### Time Complexity: `O(M⋅logM+N⋅logN)`

Sorting items in ascending order of price takes `O(M⋅logM)` time. Similarly, sorting queries in ascending order of price takes `O(N⋅logN)` time. 
Then iterating through both takes `O(M+N)` time. Thus, the total time complexity is `O(M⋅logM+N⋅logN)`

### Space Complexity: `O(SM + SN)`

The space complexity is determined by the space needed by our sorting algorithm to sort both items and queries. 
This space complexity (S) depends on the language of implementation. Given input size M: