### Intuition and Approach for House Robber Problem
This is an extension of [198.md](..%2F_198%2F198.md) and the core logic is same except handling last and first house. 

# Intuition—TwoArraysDP
The goal is to determine the maximum amount of money that can be robbed from a series of houses, where no two adjacent houses can be robbed on the same night. This problem can be approached by considering two scenarios: robbing houses from left to right and robbing houses from right to left. This ensures that we cover all possible scenarios while avoiding adjacent house robberies.

Since we can't rob adjacent houses, and the last house is adjacent to the first house, we need to skip them in both cases
#### Approach
1. **Initialization**:
    - If there is only one house (`n=1`), return the value of that house as the maximum amount that can be robbed.
    - Create two arrays `leftRight` and `rightLeft` to store the maximum amount of money that can be robbed from house 0 to house n-1 and from house n-1 to house 0, respectively.
    - Initialize these arrays with `-1` to mark unprocessed states.

2. **Base Cases**:
    - If there is only one house, set `leftRight[0]` and `rightLeft[n-1]` to `nums[0]` and `nums[n-1]`, respectively.
    - If there are two houses, set `leftRight[1]` to the maximum of `nums[0]` and `nums[1]`, and set `rightLeft[n-2]` to the maximum of `nums[n-1]` and `nums[n-2]`.

3. **Dynamic Programming**:
    - For all remaining houses, from left to right (`leftRight` array):
        - Either don't rob the current house and take the last maximum (`leftRight[i-1]`) or rob the current house along with the previous to previous (`leftRight[i-2] + nums[i]`).
    - Similarly, for all remaining houses, from right to left (`rightLeft` array):
        - Either don't rob the current house and take the last maximum (`rightLeft[j+1]`) or rob the current house along with the next to next (`rightLeft[j+2] + nums[j]`).

4. **Final Decision**:
    - Since we can't rob adjacent houses, and the last house is adjacent to the first house, we need to skip them in both cases. Hence, return the maximum of `leftRight[n-2]` and `rightLeft[1]`.

## Intuition—TwoPassLinear/OnePassLinear
This is same as [198.md](..%2F_198%2F198.md) #4. `Approach—SolutionLinear`